1. What can you observed about the up-sampled images produced by each of the methods?
Nearest neighbour seems to be visually grainy. Others feel blurred and lacking detail. The darkest and lightest sections
of the original image seem to be muted with less contrast

2. How do the different methods compare to each other in terms of PSNR as well as visual
quality? Why?
PSNR is lowest with the nearest neighbour method and increases with the bilinear method and further increases with the bicubic
method. There is a larger difference between bilinear and bicubic than bilinear and nearest neighbour. Visual quality improves
as PSNR increases
#TODO Why

3. What parts of the image seem to work well using these digital zooming methods? What parts
of the image don’t? Why?
High contrast edges work well and the grey hue is pretty similar. The small detailed sections of the images with texture
do not show up well with these digital zooming methods. Specifically on the cameraman, the facial details, the camera details,
and the background 

4. Compare the zooming results between Lena and Cameraman. Which image results in higher
PSNR? Which image looks better when restored to the original resolution using digital zoom-
ing methods? Why?
The Lena image results in a higher PSNR over all digital zooming methods. The Lena image looks better when being restored
to the original resolution when comaring method to method. This is because the image size is larger to start with. The
cameraman image is a 256x256 px image and the Lena image is 512x512. When the bilinear reduction of resolution occurs the
images become 64x64 and 128x128 respectively. Before applying digital zooming, the reduced Lena image has 4 times the data
than the reduced cameraman image.

5. What does the PSNR tell you about each of the methods? Does it reflect what is observed
visually?
The PSNR tells us the quality of the restored image with respect to the original image. The images with higher visual quality
have higher PSNR values. With this observation it can be determined that the bicubic zooming method produces an image that is
more similar to the original than the bilinear which is more similar than the nearest neighbour method.

6. The histogram of an image shows the frequency that a certain pixel intensity occurs in an image. The full scale of pixel
intensities is divided into bins and the pixels of the image are sorted into these bins. The histogram is useful because 
it allows visual inspection of the pixel intensities found in the image. It can show how strong the highlights or shadows
or contrast is in an image.

7. The histogram shows a high distribution of pixels with a low or dark intensity. There is the highest peak right at the
darkest pixels and another smaller peak of pixels that are slightly lighter but still dark <0.1. The distribution across
the middle of the intensity scale shows a low frequency of intermediate grey intensities which decreases as the intensity
becomes lighter. There is a small jump at the highest intensity bin for 'white' highlights in the image.

8. Histogram is mirror image of the original histogram. The high frequency of low intensity values is now a high frequency
of high intensity values. 

9. The image that is transformed by gamma = 0.5 appears brighter than the original, and the image that is transformed by
gamma = 1.3 appears darker than the original image.The value of gamma deteremines how the histogram is transformed. When 
gamma is less than one, the transformation function behaves like a square root transformation and when gamma is greater than 
one, the transformation function behaves like a quadratic. Applying a square root transformation to the histogram stretches 
the lower intensity pixels and compresses the low intensity pixels. Appyling a quadratic transformation does the opposite of 
the square root transformation, instead the low intensity pixels are stretched and the high intensity pixels are compressed. 
This is why gamma = 0.5 makes the image appear brighter, whereas gamma = 1.3 makes the image appear darker.

10. The image with a transformation of gamma = 0.5 has a broad distribution of pixel intensities whereas the image transformed
by gamma = 1.3 has a compressed low intenisty distribution. Gamma less than one means that the low intensity pixels get stretched
and that the high intensity pixels get compressed, vice versa when gamma is greater than one. Since the histogram transformed by
gamma = 0.5 has a broad distribution the corresponding image is going to have a somewhat of a balance between white and black pixels.
And since the histogram transformed by gamma = 1.3 is compressed at low intensities, the corresponding image is going to have mainly
black in the image with low contrast.

11. Since the pixels are mainly distributed on the low intensity side of the histogram, and an "ideal image" has a straight line
distribution, applying a transformation with gamma = 0.5, distributes more of the pixels from the low intensity side to other parts
of the histogram to get closer to the "ideal" straight line distribution.

12. The image seems to be the ideal contrast, there is a good balance of high and low intensity pixels which makes it feel
like the image has more detailed than the others.

13. The intenisty distribution of the pixels across the histogram is balanced. The skimage.exposure.equalize_hist() function
uses the intensity histogram to calculate a cumulative distribution function (CDF) of that histogram. The CDF is applied as a
transformation function to remap every pixel intensity to stretch out the concentrated intenisty ranges. This is why the low 
intensity pixels appeared to be stretched across the rest of the range in the resulting histogram. The intensity distribution 
of the histogram implies that the image's constrast is balanced.

Summary: In terms of up-sampling images, bicubic seems to give the best results, whereas nearest-neighbour comes up a little 
short of bilinear. This is supported both by visually assessing the quality of the image and by comparing the PSNR. For point 
operations, the transformation that does the best job of spreading the distribution of pixel intensities across the histogram 
results in the most visually pleasing alteration of the image.


