1. What did convolving the image with h1 do to the image? Looking at the impulse function, 
explain why convolving the image with h1 yields such results.

Convolving the image with h1 made the image look more blurry, especially in lena's hair and feathers
but the background looks very similar after the operation. This happens because we apply a horizontal
averaging where an output pixel's value is determined by the 6 neighbouring horizontal pixels in the input image. 

2. What did convolving the image with h2 do to the image? Looking at the impulse function,
explain why convolving the image with h2 yields such results.

Convolving the image with h2 made the image look more blurry, especially in lena's lips, shoulder/chin area, and hat texture
and the background still looks very similar after the operation. The hair and feathers retain more of their detail than in h1.
This happens because we apply a vertical averaging where an output pixel's value is determined by the 6 neighbouring vertical
pixels in the input image. 

3. What did convolving the image with h3 do to the image? Looking at the impulse function,
explain why convolving the image with h3 yields such results.

Convolving the image with h3 produced an image that is almost entirely dark with highlights at vertical
edges in the original image. Lena's silohuette is mostly visible with detail in the feathers showing as well.
This result is caused by the h3 kernel being a horizontal edge detection kernel where the output is a comparison of
intensities of horizontally neighbouring pixels in the input image

4. Based on these results, what role can convolution perform in the context of image processing?

5. Describe each of the histograms in the context of the corresponding noise models. Why do
they appear that way?

Gaussian takes the original intensity values and stretches them out in a normal distribution with a peak at each side's intensity value
TODO Ask chat
Salt and Pepper retains most of the original pixel values with a small group of randomly selected pixels are substituted for completely black or white (0s or 1s)
TODO ask chat
Speckle noise spreads the pixels at each of the starting intensities out evenly over a range that is a certain amount lower and higher than the original value
The distribution of originally low intensity pixels is narrower than the distribution of originally high intensity pixels
Since the noise we are adding is multiplied by the pixel intensity, the variance of the speckle 
TODO Chat help pls

6. Are there visual differences between the noise contaminated images? What are they? Why?
Gaussian looks very noisy with a mix of pixel intensities and noise everywhere across the image



7. In the speckle noise case, what is the underlying distribution used? Can you tell from the
histogram? How?

8. In the speckle noise case, you will notice that the peaks of the histogram are no longer of the
same height as they were in the original image. Also, th

9. Compare the visual difference between the noisy image and the denoised image. How well
did it work? Why? Did the PSNR decrease?
The noisy image looks like the original image, but with static added. Like colour intensities that are a bit out of place.
Areas on the image that would be flat, seem to have texture, however textured areas retain a lot of the textures from the original image.
For the filtered image it removes that static look and brings back some of the smoothness of the original image. However,
some of the contrast is lost and the intensities appear more muted, especially in Lena's hair and feathers. This is because
random noise was added that retains a similar intensity to the original image, then 3x3 patches are averaged to filter out
the speckles, while also reducing some of the contrast. The PSNR in the noisy image is 75.12 whereas the PSNR in the filtered
image is 79.75, meaning that the filtering improves the quality of the image. 

10. Compare the histograms of the noise-free, noisy, and denoised images. What happened?
Why?
The histogram of the noise-free image contains peaks of certain intensities like ~0.15 ~0.35 ~0.5 ~0.6 and ~0.8 where certain
features in the image that have the same colour, produce the same or similar intensity pixels. When the gaussian noise is added,
the histogram smooths out much of the peaks, adding pixels of many intensities which makes the histogram look more like a gaussian
distribution. After applying the averaging filter, the histogram transforms back closer to the original image with peaks at similar
intensities, however less drastic of peaks and troughs.

11. Based on visual quality of the denoised image, what are the benefits and drawbacks associated
with the average filter
Based on the visual quality of the denoised image, the benefits of the average filter is that it can remove a large amount
of speckling from images with the caveat that contrast is lost between areas of high pixel intensity next to areas of low
pixel intensity, making the image look blurry.

